(enchanting music)
(light beams whoosh)
(theme music begins)
♪ Oh, yeah, breathe in deep
♪ Trying to take the leap
♪ Believe you can fly
♪ Become the wind
♪ Soar beyond the unknown
(theme music continues)
♪ Can't hold back
this lightning speed ♪
♪ Trust your heart
will take the lead ♪
♪ Never turning back and
never letting fate decide ♪
♪ Skies ahead may not be blue
♪ That don't mean we
can't break through ♪
♪ Leave your cares behind
♪ We'll never know
until we try ♪
♪ So what can we say
♪ We'll blaze our own way
♪ We'll make it up
♪ We're cranking
up the altitude ♪
♪ Oh, yeah, breathe in
deep, gonna take the leap ♪
♪ Sail into the sky
♪ Over the horizon,
adventure waits ♪
♪ It's calling you
♪ Don't dare think twice
♪ Just take the dive
♪ Yeah, become the wind
♪ And soar beyond the unknown
♪ Chasing the
light of tomorrow ♪
♪ Illuminate a new,
and glorious world ♪
(pensive music)
[Narrator] This is
the mysterious world
where Digimon live,
the Digital World.
Tai Kamiya and the
other Digi-destined,
along with their
Digimon partners
continue their quest to stop
the return of Millenniummon,
while also trying
to find and gather
the rest of their
scattered friends.
Meanwhile, Matt and Gabumon
were also on the move
and on their way to
rejoin the others.
However, as they traveled,
they happened to pass some
strange rock formations
where a group of
manipulated Digimon
were mysteriously lurking.
Great danger was
closing in on Gabumon.
[Mephistomon] El
sabas millennia.
El sabas millennia.
(tense music)
(explosion booming)
(lasers blasting)
(Matt yelling)
(intense music)
(water gurgling)
(geyser booming)
(Joe and Gomamon screaming)
(Joe and Gomamon
painfully moaning)
Gomamon, you okay?
(Joe sneezing)
It's cold.
What happened to my clothes?
They were in my bag.
[Matt] You mean this?
Huh? Oh nice, my bag!
[Joe and Gomamon] Matt!
Joe, forgetting something?
[Joe] We were trapped by a
bunch of roughneck Digimon
at the hot springs.
We were going crazy
trying to find some way
to get out of there.
But luckily, we found a rock
that was plugging a hole
at the bottom of the hot springs
and keeping the water
from running out.
And when we shoved
it to the side,
we got swept out through the
hole, along with the water.
I'm glad you're here.
Huh?
(suspenseful music)
[Gomamon] Gabumon was captured?
[Matt] Yeah, by a Digimon
called Mephistomon.
El sabas millennia.
[Troopman] El sabas millennia.
[Mephistomon] El
sabas millennia.
El sabas millennia.
(Elecmon yelling)
(suspenseful music)
[Matt] Mephistomon sucks
the energy from Digimon
with an evil spell and then
sends it to a black crystal.
[Gomamon] A black crystal?
Isn't that-
[Joe] One of those shards
of that Millenniummon guy?
So you're saying that thing
is a piece of an ancient
deadly Digimon's body,
like in Tai's story?
Sure seems that way.
It looks like it's being
used as part of a ritual
where they offer up
living sacrifices.
Can't say I've ever seen
the point of that
kind of thing myself.
I can't just ignore this.
I have to, I have to save them!
We decided we had to
act so we went in, but-
(lasers blasting)
We got separated.
Garurumon!
Matt, take care
of those Digimon!
Garurumon!
Joe.
Huh?
[Matt] Gomamon.
Hmm?
I can't reach the
very top on my own.
That's why I need you
to lend me a hand.
Please.
-Of course!
-You bet!
Gee, I never imagined
there would come a day
when you'd ask me for help.
Whatever you need, Matt,
you just leave it to us.
(mysterious music)
I guess my number's up.
(explosions booming)
Harpoon Torpedo!
(missiles roaring)
(explosions booming)
[Tai] When we all got separated
after reaching this continent,
I was worried we might
never find each other again.
But now, even after
everything that's happened,
we're only missing Joe and Matt.
I just wonder if Matt and
Gabumon are still all right.
Oh, I bet they're just fine.
After all, those two have
been working together
for a long time, even
since before I met Agumon.
You're right, they have.
I wonder exactly how long.
Do you have any idea, TK?
Because Matt and me,
we've been living apart
for a long time now.
Our mommy and daddy
got into a big fight
and they were away at
work a lot of the time,
so neither of them was
ever home much anyway.
So then one day, I went
to live with mommy,
and Matt went to
live with daddy.
But it isn't like I
never got to see him.
He always kept in touch
and he came to visit a lot.
Oh, wow. I never
knew all that.
Okay, which one of you
guys took my grapes?
(Tai laughing)
Loving the new look.
Yeah, now that I think about it,
Matt and Gabumon I mean.
How did they meet?
[Tsunomon] Matt!
[Matt] It all came
at me so suddenly,
a world I'd never seen before
and a strange creature
that called me by my name.
Enough with all this Digimon
and Network crisis stuff.
I don't have time to
even listen to this,
let alone get involved.
You're just gonna have
to find somebody else.
Come on, Matt, don't leave.
How do I even get outta here?
Stop following me.
I'm not following you,
I'm protecting you.
That's okay, isn't it?
(Matt sighing)
(gentle music)
Hey, I told you
not to follow me.
It just so happens I have
business this way too.
(Matt sighing)
[Matt] And then-
(Tsunomon yelling)
Tsunomon really did protect me.
Hey, are you okay, little guy?
Matt!
You gotta get out of here!
(lasers blasting)
Matt.
(Matt grunting)
(Matt yelling)
Okay, so what's
your story anyway?
Matt, you, you risked
your life to protect me.
You could have just run
off and left me there.
Well, uh-
I guess it just seemed
like the right thing to do.
(Gabumon laughing)
So then, what's your name?
Hang on, Gabumon.
I'm coming!
(foreboding music)
El sabas millennia.
-El sabas millennia.
-(Gabumon screaming)
El sabas millennia.
(Matt groaning)
What is this?
There's a voice repeating
over and over in my head!
[Mephistomon] El
sabas millennia.
El sabas millennia.
(lasers blasting)
(Joe yelling)
These guys must be taking
their orders from that spell.
I'm losing control!
Don't listen!
Don't listen to it!
No use!
Even with my ears covered,
I can still hear it!
(Joe gasping)
[Mephistomon] El
sabas millennia.
El sabas millennia.
I've gotta do it on my own.
(Matt grunting)
[Mephistomon] El
sabas millennia.
El sabas millennia.
Focus, Joe!
Focus!
Uh, Joe?
"As the temple bells
at Gion Shoja toll,
they echo the
impermanence of all.
The color of the
salt flowers reveals
that even the
fortunate must fall."
The capital was moved
to Heijo-kyo in 710
and to Heian-kyo in 794.
The Kamakura shogunate was
established by the Minamoto clan
in 1185.
Tokugawa came to power in 1603.
The Kamakura shogunate
was established in 1185.
Three point one four
one five nine two six
five three five.
Three point one four one five
nine two six five three five
eight nine seven nine three two
three eight four six two six
four three three eight three
two seven nine five zero
two eight eight four
one nine seven one.
Whoa.
[Joe and Troopmon] Hydrogen,
helium, lithium, beryllium,
boron, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen.
Hey, my headache went away!
[Troopman] As the temple
bells at Gion Shoja toll-
This is a little weird.
(triumphant music)
You can do it, Matt!
Keep going, keep going!
(triumphant music)
(Matt yelling)
Oh, Matt.
You're-
I'm here.
El sabas millennia.
(Matt grunting)
What the heck is going on?
El sabas millennia.
(Gabumon screaming)
Gabumon!
(Matt groaning)
No, Matt!
Don't!
Get outta here!
(powerful music)
I'm not leaving you.
What are you doing, Matt?
Stop!
Get out of here!
No point in both of
us ending up like-
Just shut up and hang on.
Oh, Matt, you stubborn fool!
Well, Gabumon, you could say
it takes one to know one.
(Gabumon screaming)
(Matt groaning)
Something in me changed
after I met you.
I gained something important!
(Matt yelling)
(Mephistomon growling)
Gabumon!
Don't you see?
You gave me something
I'd never had before!
You were my first friend!
(Mephistomon grunting)
All right, Gabumon.
You ready for this?
Yeah.
As long as I'm with you, Matt.
(energetic music)
Gabumon digivolve to-
Garurumon!
Howling Blaster!
(Mephistomon roaring)
Cut through that cloud!
(singing in Japanese)
Garurumon digivolve to-
WereGarurumon!
(WereGarurumon grunting)
El sabas millennia.
Let's finish this!
Sounds good to me!
(WereGarurumon roaring)
(Mephistomon roaring)
(Gabumon chuckling)
(bright music)
[Gabumon] Wow.
You really climbed this thing?
[Matt] Not all by myself.
Joe and Gomamon helped me.
And so did you.
Huh?
I did?
[TK] Matt!
(TK laughing)
Hey!
(upbeat music)
♪ We're falling rapidly
♪ Are we gonna lose it all?
♪ What is it you're
waiting for? ♪
♪ The headwind's signaling
♪ That we better
give this our all ♪
♪ Believe and push forward
♪ Is this the strength
we've been looking for? ♪
♪ Is this the reason we need
to kick down the door? ♪
♪ Is the seed of failure
sprouting into wings? ♪
♪ Does the past
decide the future? ♪
♪ So if you hope
to see a rainbow ♪
♪ You need to open
up your eyes ♪
♪ Take a helping
hand and understand ♪
♪ That it's time you realize
♪ If you wanna make
your dreams reality, ♪
♪ It may not be easy
♪ Just take a breath
and take a chance ♪
♪ Next thing you know,
♪ You're a shining
beacon in the sky ♪
[Izzy] The Digimon Encyclopedia!
ElDradimon, a gigantic Digimon
whose shell carries a
whole castle on top of it!
The castle gates are at the
top of ElDradimon's head!
Now, check this out!
What does ElDradimon eat?
Who fixes the castle if the
shell flips over and it breaks?
I have so many questions.
I wonder if I could ask
ElDradimon for an interview?
(ceremonious music)
Which Digimon will
it be next time?
[Narrator] Big trouble
arises over french fries
in a formerly peaceful oasis.
Can Joe save his friend?
[Tai] Next time,
"Jagamon, Potato Trouble".
[Narrator] The adventure
continues in a new world.